the people of Gaza haven't had much to
eat since the War Began and now for the
first time the UN say a state of famine
is evident in Northern Gaza severe
restrictions have blocked food
deliveries Israel's constant bombardment
is further isolating more areas forcing
Palestinians to survive on leaves scraps
and food
handouts the head of the UN world food
program is renewing calls for a
humanitarian ceasefire what I can
explain to you is is that there is
famine full-blown famine in the north
and it's moving its way south and so
with what we're asking for and what we
continually ask for is is a ceasefire
and the ability to have unfettered
access uh to get in safe and unfettered
access to get into the uh into into Gaza
various ports and various various gay
Crossings uh but we you know it hasn't
always worked that way Israel has been
block in most of the aid trucks from
coming in allowing only a trickle of
eight to reach
Palestinians International efforts have
shifted to air dropping supplies but
that's insufficient and unsustainable to
meet the dire need on the ground it's
horror it's you know it it's it's so
hard to look at and it's so hard to hear
also so uh uh I'm just I'm I'm so hoping
that we can get a ceasefire and and
begin to to feed these people especially
in the north uh in a in a more in in a
much faster fashion but also including
as I said water uh sanitation medicine
it's all part of the famine the famine
issue and it's also something that we
need to make sure that the world
understands we can't let this happen the
entire Gaza population of 2.3 million
people do not have enough food and the
crisis is escalating each day children
are struggling the most hospitals
started reporting the first deaths from
starvation in early
March efforts to prevent famine hinge on
the ceasefire but a deal remains as
elusive as ever Axel zovich
aljer Ben Grant's the Gaza lead for the
food relief group global empowerment
Mission he's joining us live from der
obala in Gaza Ben good to have you with
us we saw at the top of um uh Axel's
report there pictures of a family in
jabalia who are struggling to find food
I know that you and your teams have been
delivering some Aid there talk us
through what you have been seeing when
in
jabalia well it is extremely distressing
um especially the mission that we are
just came back from uh comparing the
difference between the areas or the
people in the areas of the South and the
middle areas um with comparison to the
north I mean the people are looking
extremely skinny exhausted there is
definite famine within the regions there
and on a mass scale so this is why
stepping up our efforts to ens sure we
can get the aid to the people as quick
as possible is is so essential right now
how difficult is it to get Aid to people
uh into Gaza generally but also to the
north
particularly yeah so you know getting
them into G we all know it's been slow
utilizing you know pretty much the one
Crossing refer Crossing but you know so
then once we get Aid in there which we
have managed to do in in a you know
reasonably large scale so of to get it
up to the north is a whole another
process I mean don't get me wrong it's
it's more around the lines of having to
ensure our safety as well as the safety
of the aid and so we carry out the
deconfliction notification process with
the IDF where we have to draw up and
write up um every single movement we're
going to do the vehicles the load where
they're going to go the exact grid
locations um and the timings and then on
the actual day of the movement we have
to have constant communication with them
um to you know
inform them of exactly where we're going
to be so every step of the way we're
waiting for a green light the green
light to move on head to that location
but the problem with this is the
communication side of things um you know
it's trying to get signal in the phone
in an active war zone is very difficult
to get hold of the IDS to get the green
light um sa phones don't always work we
can't have star links it's we just need
to up on the communication and that will
probably speed up the whole process but
we also need to ensure that we can get
more Aid up there more larger Aid
convoys need to be allowed um we're
particularly hopeful of the Aras
Crossing now opening and US been able to
utilize that because that will massively
increase the amount of Aid coming in
obviously the aid is in desperate need
by the people and one would imagine from
what our correspondent hany mmud was
saying earlier on more and more people
are heading back northwards as they feel
slightly safer about about doing that
therefore the demand increases tell me
about the kind of delays that you're
facing if you get a truck that's going
across the border into Gaza what's how
long does it take to get that truck
eventually up towards Northern
Gaza well from the moment we set off I'd
say to the moment we actually get to our
warehouse it could take anything from 6
to 9 hours maybe which is unbelievable
um and that's just having to wait like I
said it's an active war zone SO waiting
at the checkpoint for the operations to
come underway and then allowing us to go
through and there's always delays so it
is very very difficult m are you able to
um tailor the kind of Aid that you're
supplying do you have a clearer idea now
of what kind of Aid people actually need
uh particularly in Northern Gaza
particularly around jabalia or is it a
question of just trying to get as much
of any type of Aid as possible into Gaza
and then trying to disseminate it as you
see
fit yes well I mean we had a breakdown
of the different food Aid that we
brought up there we we took you know
bags of flour um about 26 uh you know
th000 kilos of it um 21,000 kilos of
rice but then we also maximized on food
Parcels now these are very very special
because they haven't actually been
distributed to anyone up there and it
allows families to not just have one uh
particular large bul commodity they can
have a whole range of different products
the full family would be able to survive
on for a number of days and these are
the area that I think needs to be
focused on um you know simultaneously
actually with hygiene kits if we can
have food parcels and hygiene kids to
the families it means they have
absolutely everything they need um well
the Bare Essentials they need uh to be
able to survive so that's what we're
trying to make toiz on right now Ben
Grant is from the food relief group
global empowerment Mission and we
appreciate you being with us thank you
very much indeed
Ben thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al